README.md, before:

# Rush PH Messenger Bot

A Facebook Messenger bot that provides real-time train arrival times and ETAs for Philippine train systems (MRT, LRT-1, LRT-2) by scraping data from rush-ph.com.

## Problem Statement

In the Philippines, data connectivity can be limited when commuting, but Facebook Messenger is accessible through free data plans. This bot solves the problem by allowing users to get train schedule information through Messenger without needing to access the web directly.

## Features

- 🚆 Real-time train arrival times
- 📍 Station-to-station journey planning
- ⏱️ Estimated travel time calculations
- 💬 Conversational interface via Facebook Messenger
- 🔄 Supports MRT-3, LRT-1, and LRT-2 lines

## How It Works

1. User sends a message to the bot
2. Bot asks for current station
3. User provides current station
4. Bot asks for destination station
5. Bot scrapes rush-ph.com and provides:
   - Next train arrival times
   - Estimated journey duration
   - Line information

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Python Flask
- **Web Scraping**: BeautifulSoup4, Requests
- **Messaging**: Facebook Messenger API
- **Deployment**: Render
- **Data Source**: rush-ph.com

## Project Status

✅ **Implementation Complete** - The bot is fully functional with all core features implemented!

- ✅ Multi-step conversation flow
- ✅ Station validation and suggestions  
- ✅ Train schedule simulation (ready for real data integration)
- ✅ Facebook Messenger webhook integration
- ✅ Error handling and user guidance
- ✅ Deployment configuration for Render

See [IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md](./IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md) for development details.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Facebook Developer Account
- Facebook Page for the bot
- Render account for deployment

### Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Rush-PH-Messenger.git
cd Rush-PH-Messenger

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your Facebook app credentials

# Run the application
python app.py
```

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file with the following variables:

```
FACEBOOK_PAGE_ACCESS_TOKEN=your_page_access_token
FACEBOOK_VERIFY_TOKEN=your_verify_token
FACEBOOK_APP_SECRET=your_app_secret
PORT=5000
```

## API Usage

The bot responds to natural language queries about train stations. Users can type station names in English or Filipino.

### Example Conversations

```
User: "Hi"
Bot: "Hello! 👋 What's your current train station?"

User: "Taft Avenue"
Bot: "Got it! Taft Avenue station. Where are you heading?"

User: "Cubao"
Bot: "🚆 LRT-1: Taft Avenue → Cubao
⏰ Next trains:
• 10:05 AM (3 mins)
• 10:12 AM (10 mins)  
• 10:19 AM (17 mins)
🕐 Estimated travel time: 25 minutes"
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [rush-ph.com](https://rush-ph.com) for providing train schedule data
- Facebook Messenger Platform for the messaging API
- The Filipino commuter community for inspiration

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue on GitHub.

---

**Made with ❤️ for Filipino commuters**

Commit message:

🚀 Complete migration from Python to Node.js
- Migrated Flask app to Express.js (app.py → app.js)
- Added Node.js dependencies (package.json, package-lock.json)
- Restructured codebase with proper Node.js architecture:
  - src/bot/ - Conversation handling and Messenger API
  - src/scraper/ - Train schedule scraping functionality
  - src/utils/ - Helper functions and utilities
  - test/ - JavaScript validation test suite
- Updated environment configuration:
  - FLASK_ENV → NODE_ENV in .env files
  - Removed Python-specific variables
- Updated deployment configuration:
  - Procfile: web: npm start (Node.js best practice)
  - DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md: Complete Node.js deployment instructions
- Cleaned up Python artifacts:
  - Removed all .py files and Python directories
  - Updated .gitignore for Node.js only (removed Python-specific entries)
- ✅ All tests passing - Bot ready for Node.js deployment!

README.md, after:

# Rush PH Messenger Bot

A Facebook Messenger bot that provides real-time train arrival times and ETAs for Philippine train systems (MRT, LRT-1, LRT-2) by scraping data from rush-ph.com.

## Problem Statement

In the Philippines, data connectivity can be limited when commuting, but Facebook Messenger is accessible through free data plans. This bot solves the problem by allowing users to get train schedule information through Messenger without needing to access the web directly.

## Features

- 🚆 Real-time train arrival times
- 📍 Station-to-station journey planning
- ⏱️ Estimated travel time calculations
- 💬 Conversational interface via Facebook Messenger
- 🔄 Supports MRT-3, LRT-1, and LRT-2 lines

## How It Works

1. User sends a message to the bot
2. Bot asks for current station
3. User provides current station
4. Bot asks for destination station
5. Bot scrapes rush-ph.com and provides:
   - Next train arrival times
   - Estimated journey duration
   - Line information

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Node.js with Express
- **Web Scraping**: Axios and Cheerio
- **Messaging**: Facebook Messenger API
- **Deployment**: Render
- **Data Source**: rush-ph.com

## Project Status

✅ **Implementation Complete** - The bot is fully functional with all core features implemented!

- ✅ Multi-step conversation flow
- ✅ Station validation and suggestions  
- ✅ Train schedule simulation (ready for real data integration)
- ✅ Facebook Messenger webhook integration
- ✅ Error handling and user guidance
- ✅ Deployment configuration for Render

See [IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md](./IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md) for development details.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm or yarn
- Facebook Developer Account
- Facebook Page for the bot
- Render account for deployment

### Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Rush-PH-Messenger.git
cd Rush-PH-Messenger

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your Facebook app credentials

# Run the application
npm start

# Or for development with auto-restart
npm run dev
```

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file with the following variables:

```
FACEBOOK_PAGE_ACCESS_TOKEN=your_page_access_token
FACEBOOK_VERIFY_TOKEN=your_verify_token
FACEBOOK_APP_SECRET=your_app_secret
PORT=5000
```

## API Usage

The bot responds to natural language queries about train stations. Users can type station names in English or Filipino.

### Example Conversations

```
User: "Hi"
Bot: "Hello! 👋 What's your current train station?"

User: "Taft Avenue"
Bot: "Got it! Taft Avenue station. Where are you heading?"

User: "Cubao"
Bot: "🚆 LRT-1: Taft Avenue → Cubao
⏰ Next trains:
• 10:05 AM (3 mins)
• 10:12 AM (10 mins)  
• 10:19 AM (17 mins)
🕐 Estimated travel time: 25 minutes"
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [rush-ph.com](https://rush-ph.com) for providing train schedule data
- Facebook Messenger Platform for the messaging API
- The Filipino commuter community for inspiration

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue on GitHub.

---

**Made with ❤️ for Filipino commuters**
